Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
We talked a lot about modeling in the previous two sections or some best practices without actually
doing a whole lot of modeling.
So we're going to do some of this before we talk about some other things again.
Now in this section we're going to model out a concept called you works.
It's a CO office coworking space for entrepreneurs and freelancers to work together under the same roof.
There are conference rooms there are shared desks private this private offices and other common areas.
Folks can get memberships ranging from their floating desk memberships to dedicated desks to private
offices each costing more per month.
So with these options we kind of have a natural segmentation of the customers because no customer is
going to be in two plans.
So how might we model something like this in the spreadsheets.
Let's start with the basics first with a sanity check.
All right.
The first thing that we're going to do is do a sanity check again.
Right.
So with you work's kind of business model you've got to start off with the space that you're looking
at right or the size of the space that you're thinking about.
So we're going to start with that and let's say we wanted to look at a 50 thousand square foot office
it's like an old office building could have been an old factory building that's now in an up and coming
you know hipster office area and you works is seeing a opportunity there now something like this you
don't need to know where these numbers come from.
But in terms of looking at these kind of real estate heavy types of projects they're going to be looking
at the cost of acquiring say the building the old building itself.
OK and maybe they might be spending a hundred dollars per square foot on just the existing building
or whatever is there.
It's in the nice prime location so it costs a little more than buying just some plain rundown warehouse
that nobody wants and then they might be spending a good amount on the build out to make it really nice
to make it an upscale office feel and to add all those amenities and features that will attract the
kind of customers that they want.
So maybe they're going to spend three hundred and twenty five bucks on a per square foot on the buildout.
All right.
So we've if we have that kind of assumption then the cost of the building to get it to the point where
it's ready to take on customers to buy it and make all the renovations and the buildout is going to
equal to 50 thousand times the four hundred and twenty five dollars per square foot.
Right.
So why do we have this number here this kind of gives us an estimated costs of building by itself.
Now this does include all of the other costs related to starting this up.
Right.
There might be some design work permitting marketing.
All of those other things is just for the building itself.
Now we're we're just going to keep that there so we can refer back to that.
OK.
Now in terms of doing a sanity check.
Well let's think about the spaces right.
What are the spaces that are there for something like a shared coworking space.
Well we're going to have common spaces right.
We're gonna have share desks.
These communal desks where you know you can sit anywhere you want as long as you have that membership.
But then there is also private desks.
Some people want to have a dedicated private desk that they're going to have whenever they go there.
All right.
And then there are groups or some individuals that want to have a private office and maybe we'll have
a small office for small groups and some large office.
OK.
Now all of the space is going to be divided up between these sets of categories of spaces.
Right.
So one way we can think about dividing the space up is this split.
All of them by a percentage.
OK.
So maybe from practice they know that you need to have at least you know 35 percent set aside for common
spaces conference rooms and Hall halls and reception area is maybe a kitchen and bath.
You know things like that 15 percent for shared desks maybe another 15 percent for private desks 20
percent for small office.
And then what we can do is we can have the rest which what we can do is by saying one minus the rest
of the percentages.
Now the reason we do that and they get not a plug in assumption is that way we can enforce that.
All of this is 100 percent.
So you just put in the assumptions for these first phase as well the last space has to take up the rest.
Right now we can kind of get a idea of the spread now by multiplying these percentages times the total
square footage right in because it's a cell here that we want to reference all the way down.
We want to make that a absolute reference.
OK.
So based on those assumptions we can get this kind of breakdown in terms of the amount of space that
is available for the different types of uses.
OK then we've got to think about well OK we have the square footage for these spaces and you know we
can change them around.
But how many seats do we actually have.
Right or spots that the business can sell or or rent to.
OK.
So we can think about how much space is needed or is given or allocated to say a shared desk maybe a
share does doesn't really take that much space.
Maybe it's just kind of like a five by five area a little box is good enough.
And so we allocate twenty six square feet for shared desk but for private desks we give a little bit
more space so maybe it's on average thirty six square feet and small offices maybe we provide you know
one hundred twenty square feet and then for larger offices two hundred fifty square feet.
Okay.
So much bigger than the other spots but you know still reasonable.
So if we have those assumptions for the sizes now how many spots do we have.
Well the spots available will just equal to the square footage that we have divided by the square footage
per spot.
Right.
So then now we get the number of spots.
So when we do that we can do this calculation and we copy this formula piece it down.
Now I didn't have to use absolute references here because well we wanted the formula to track right.
Each time we wanted to track to a different number there.
OK.
Well actually do you if you notice I did that with the wrong square footage here.
Right.
So I needed to adjust this.
Move it down and reconfigure the formula.
So now.
OK.
Large office.
Correct.
See this is why you got to do spot checks and make sure you are actually calling the right place for
your formulas.
OK so now we have the number of spots here.
Then we can think about how much we might want to charge for each of these spots.
Right.
And we're gonna think about a price per month.
We're going to model this out on a per month basis.
Then this will be useful for us.
So for share desks maybe let's start off with two hundred fifty dollars per month.
OK.
And then for the private desks dedicated desk is 350 for the small office is 550.
And for the large office is for groups is going to be fifteen hundred maybe a little bit more.
You know that's a really big space.
So maybe it's sixteen hundred whatever that is.
OK so then let's calculate a maximum possible gross revenue.
Right.
That's based on just the number of seats there are spots available for each of the categories.
So then we could do the same calculation that we did before.
So we can get a a monthly gross.
OK.
So we see how that sort of is distributed.
We see that even though we charge a lot more for these small offices are the private offices it makes
up a lower percentage because it has fewer spots available.
So there was some that up we'll get an idea of the maximum gross rent that this business or with this
size can generate.
OK.
And if we annualize that we could see what that looks like on an annual basis.
Right.
Just multiply it by twelve.
As a quick estimate now from here we can do some estimates about how much the size of the project this
can support.
So basically how big of a budget could a project like this with this kind of income support.
OK so maybe we could do something like.
All right well let's say we all.
We most want to put you know 35 percent of gross rents towards debt service.
Okay.
And then from that we can sort of calculate what a maximum loan is right.
That you know assuming let's say we're putting in five point five percent a year in terms of debt service.
OK.
So what that means is if the debt service if thirty five percent of the income is going to debt service
and it is paying 5.5 percent of the total debt every year you know whether it's advertising that we're
just assuming that for now then we can 5.
We can do it like this and calculate what is a maximum loan that we could support based on this assumption.
All right.
So the max loan here can be supported is this and then for most projects like this loan there is a certain
loan to value right they'll fund a certain loan to value in terms of the project's size.
Okay so maybe we'll say this is 60 percent loan to value then what is the total project size.
Well then it will be that divided by point six.
And now we have a total project size about 30 million.
Of course if that's in the loan then what we would need in terms of the equity from investors will be
the total project size minus the loan.
So you guys now kind of get an idea.
All right well to do a project like this you need to raise twelve point three million for a 30 million
dollar project maybe 20 million is going to the building itself and the rest is towards all of the other
things that need to be done in order to get this up and running.
We could also kind of estimate.
All right well if this were kind of role then to covering the business what what is it in terms of per
square foot.
Right.
In terms of the total project it's more like six hundred.
So there is a little cushion because you know costs of buying and building out is about four hundred
twenty five dollars then we definitely want to have some cushion.
So this makes it seem like it's possible if we're confident about these kinds of numbers.
OK.
So here's a quick sanity check then.
Now when we think about this though what might be some things that you might want to pay attention to
to account for in your model and your revenue model.
Right.
For shared desks especially something to think about is well you have a certain number of shared desks
but each person isn't going to show up every single day in every single hour that it's open out of that
month.
Right.
The utilization is not going to be 100 percent for every person that you sell the seats to.
That means you're probably going to be able to oversubscribed.
Now if if for example if the average utilization is 10 days out of the month cases like 33 percent theoretically
then you could oversubscribed by 3 X you know if you've got 30 days in a month.
But to be conservative where we may not want to go all the way to 300 percent we may just oversubscribed
by a certain amount.
Okay.
Somewhere in between that.
So there's a note here is he oversubscribed to get higher utilization and rents.
Okay.
Now for everything else because they're going to be dedicated and private.
You can't actually double lease them.
Right.
So we're going to say for everything else maybe there is some sort of time required to lease up.
Why.
Because well you know you're opening with all this available space and all these spots you're not going
to be 100 percent sold on day one.
I mean that would be ideal but most businesses are gonna take some time to actually lease up.
Once you open.
Right.
Just like any kind of real estate any kind of business is similar to this where it's about capacity
it's gonna take a little bit of time to fill it up and reach full capacity.
So just from this from this sanity check and just a little thought about it this gives us an idea of
how to Moller out the revenue.
Now we're gonna take a look of that in the next lecture.